---
title                 :  "Chatbot"
date                  :   2022-03-01 14:39:27 +0100
header:
  image       : "https://cloud.google.com/dialogflow/es/docs/images/fulfillment-flow.svg"

  credit              : "Google Dialogflow Documentation"

tags:
  - NLP
  - NLU
  - Google Assistant
  - Watson Assistant
  - Speech Interface
  - data viz
  - work
  - university
---

# Guru to Go
## a speech-controlled meditation assistant and sentiment tracker

{% include video id="R73vAH37TC0" provider="youtube" %}

Here, you see a Demo video of a voice-controlled meditation assistant that we worked on in the course "Conversational Agents and speech interfaces"

https://w3o.ikw.uni-osnabrueck.de/scheinmaker/export/details/76/

The Chatbot was built in Dialogflow, with a Python backend. It runs in Google Assistant and can adaptively deliver meditations, visualize sentiment history and comprehensively inform about meditation practices

Attached below you can also find our final report with details on the programming and thought process.


[Read the full report](https://acrobat.adobe.com/link/track?uri=urn:aaid:scds:US:23118565-e24e-4586-b0e0-c0ef7550a067
){: .btn .btn--large}


## Sommerblut

Natural Language Understanding really fascinates me and currently, I also collaborate with the team of the Sommerblut Festival in Cologne to deliver them a customized chatbot that will be able to communicate with everyone, respecting accessibility standards to really include all people. It will be able to communicate in German Sign Language (DGS), as well as service blind people, and we aim to incorporate the simple language concept. 

I find it to be an amazing challenge to start out with the requirement of really being inclusive. In ordinary social contexts it is often not obvious, but when analyzing the specific needs a plind person has browsing the internet, it is drastically different from a person having impaired hearing. To hold the same conversation with both of them is proving quite a challenge. And this is just the first step down into a very deep field of digital inclusiveness. How can people with a speech impediment use our tool? How do we include people speaking German as a foreign language? 

Such vast challenges are often obfuscated by the technical framework of our digital lives. 

I find digital accessibility a hugely interesting area, one that I am just now starting to explore. 

This is a work in progress. We have some interesting ideas and will present a conceptual prototype, come check again after March 6th, when the 2022 festival started. 

I regard this as a core question of both design and computation, really making tangible the prestructured way of our interaction with technology in general.
{: .notice}


[Check out the Sommerblut Website](https://www.sommerblut.de/
){: .btn .btn--large}