---
title:  "Coding Examples"
date:   2022-03-01 14:39:27 +0100
last_modified_at: 2021-05-11T10:23:16-04:00
author: "Aron Petau"

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/sample_lr.png
    image_path: /assets/images/sample_lr.png
    title: "A low-resolution sample"
  - url: /assets/images/sample_hr.png
    image_path: /assets/images/sample_hr.png
    alt: ""
    title: "A high-resolution sample. This is also called 'ground truth' "
  - url: /assets/images/sample_sr.png
    image_path: /assets/images/sample_sr.png
    alt: " "
    title: "The artificially enlarged image patch resulting from the algorithm"
  - url: /assets/images/sample_loss.png
    image_path: /assets/images/sample_loss.png
    alt: ""
    title: "A graph showing an exemplary loss function applied during training"
  - url: /assets/images/sample_cos_sim.png
    image_path: /assets/images/sample_cos_sim.png
    alt: ""
    title: "One qualitative measurement we used was pixel-wise cosine similarity. It is used to measure how similar the output and the ground truth images are"

tags:
  - ethics
  - computer vision
  - neural nets
  - face detection
  - object recognition
  - GOFAI
  - super resolution
  - university
  - jupyter notebook
  - google colab
  - python
  - tensorflow
  - keras
  - machine learning
  - AI
  - MTCNN
  - CNN
  - university of osnabrück
created: 2023-07-26T23:59:59+02:00
updated: 2023-07-27T00:15:06+02:00
---

# Neural Networks and Computer Vision

## A selection of coding projects

Although pure coding and debugging are often not a passion of mine, I recognize the importance of neural networks and other recent developments in Computer Vision. From several projects regarding AI and Machine Learning that I co-authored during my Bachelor Program, I picked this one since I think it is well documented and explains on a step-by-step basis what we do there.

### Image Super-Resolution using Convolutional Neural Networks (Recreation of a 2016 Paper)

Image Super-Resolution is a hugely important topic in Computer Vision. If it works sufficiently advanced, we could take all our screenshots and selfies and cat pictures from the 2006 facebook-era and even from before and scale them up to suit modern 4K needs.

Just to give an example of what is possible in 2020, just 4 years after the paper here, have a look at this video from 1902:
{% include video id="EQs5VxNPhzk" provider="youtube" %}

The 2016 paper we had a look at is much more modest: it tries to upscale only a single Image, but historically, it was one of the first to achieve computing times sufficiently small to make such realtime-video-upscaling as visible in the Video (from 2020) or of the likes that Nvidia uses nowadays to upscale Videogames.

{% include gallery caption="Example of a Super-Resolution Image. The Neural network is artificially adding Pixels so that we can finally put our measly selfie on a billboard poster and not be appalled by our deformed-and-pixelated-through-technology face." %}

[The Python notebook for Image super-resolution in Colab]( https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1RlgIKJmX8Omz9CTktX7cdIV_BwarUFpv?usp=sharing){: .btn .btn--large}

### MTCNN (Application and Comparison of a 2016 Paper)

Here, you can also have a look at another, much smaller project, where we rebuilt a rather classical Machine learning approach for face detection. Here, we use preexisting libraries to demonstrate the difference in efficacy of approaches, showing that Multi-task Cascaded Convolutional Networks (MTCNN) was one of the best-performing approaches in 2016. Since I invested much more love and work into the above project, I would prefer for you to check that one out, in case two projects are too much.  

 [Face detection using a classical AI Approach (Recreation of a 2016 Paper)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1uNGsVZ0Q42JRNa3BuI4W-JNJHaXD26bu?usp=sharing){: .btn .btn--large}
