---
title:  "Homebrew"
date:   2022-03-01 14:39:27 +0100
last_modified_at: 2021-05-11T10:23:16-04:00
author: "Aron Petau"
tags:
  - experiment
  - beer
  - homebrew
  - private
  - lager
  - altbier
  - hops
  - keg
  - fermentation
  - pressure
  - yeast
  - sustainability
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/beer_setup.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/beer_setup.jpg
    title: "The latest iteration of my homebrew setup, using pressure tanks and a pressurized fermentation chamber"
  - url: /assets/images/beer_setup_2.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/beer_setup_2.jpg
    title: "An electric kettle I use for the Brew"
  - url: /assets/images/beer_tap.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/beer_tap.jpg
    title: "I made my own kegging system featuring a tap from an old table leg."
  - url: /assets/images/beer_fermentation.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/beer_fermentation.jpg
    title: "An active fermentation"
  - url: /assets/images/hops.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/hops.jpg
    title: "Hops growing in our garden, so I can experiment with fresh specialty hops"
  - url: /assets/images/beer_malt.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/beer_malt.jpg
    title: "The leftover mass of spent grain. 
    Animals love it, it's great for composting, 
    but most importantly, its great for baking bread!"
    
created: 2023-07-27T00:00:07+02:00
updated: 2023-07-27T00:00:07+02:00

---

## Brewing

### Making my own beer

I love hosting, I love experimenting in the Kitchen. Starting with homebrews was a natural fit for me and during the first wave of Covid-19, I went the whole homebrewer’s route of bottle fermentation and small batches later elevating my game with larger batches of 50 liters and a pressure tank system.

Starting out, I found it fascinating, how just 4 rather simple ingredients, malt, hops, water and yeast, can form such an incredible range of taste experiences. It was and still is, a tremendous learning experience, where one slowly has to accept not being able to control the process fully and find room for creativity. 

Why do I present such an unrelated non-academic hobby here? I simply do not regard it as unrelated, experimenting and optimizing a process and a workflow, creating optimal conditions for the yeast to do its job feels very similar to approaching a coding project.
Yeast and what it does fascinates me. Every time I open the latch to release some pressure on the Tank I think of the awesome symbiotic relationships yeast has with humans and how many different strains live there together to create a unique, yet tailored flavor. Several ideas are floating around of changing the brewing process by capturing the created carbon dioxide and using it productively. I could see a car tire being filled with my beer gas, or an algae farm munching away on my CO2 byproducts. Within a closed-loop pressurized system, such ideas actually become realizable and I would love to explore them further.

I am not yet an expert on algae, but I can manage with yeast and I believe they can coexist and create a more sustainable cycle of production. 
Young Henrys, a brewery in Australia is already incorporating algae into its industrial process:
 [The Algae project](https://younghenrys.com/algae){: .btn .btn--large}

Such ideas do not come into the industry by themselves: I believe that art and the exploratory discovery of novel techniques are the same things. Good and inventive design can improve society and make steps towards sustainability. I want to be part of that and would love to find new ways of using yeast in other design contexts: See whether I can make them work in a closed circular system, make them calculate things for me, or simply making my next beer taste awesome with just the right amount of fizz.

{% include gallery caption="Some selected photos of the process in our Kitchen" %}
