---
title          :  "BEACON"
date           :   2022-03-01 14:39:27 +0100
header:
  overlay_image       : "/assets/images/grass_blur.jpg"
  overlay_filter: 0.2
  caption: "Photo: AP"
author         : "Aron Petau"
sidebar:
  title        : "Portfolio Navigator"
  nav          : "portfolio-sidebar"
categories:
  - university
tags:
  - decentral
  - democratic
  - python
  - engineering
  - data viz
  - electricity
  - solar
  - python
---

# BEACON
## Decentralizing the Energy Grid in inaccessible and remote regions

### Location

Towards the end of 2018, I spent 4 months in northern India, for a research project with the IIT Kharagpur.

The goal was to work on one of the 17 UN-defined sustainable development goals – electricity. Worldwide, an estimated 1 billion people have no access to the grid. Some of them live here, in the Key Monastery in the Spiti valley at around 3000 meters altitude.



<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d843.1304298825468!2d78.01154047393467!3d32.2978346!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x3906a673e168749b%3A0xf011101a0f02588b!2sKey%20Gompa%20(Key%20Monastery)!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sde!4v1647009764190!5m2!1sen!2sde" width="300" height="300" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy"></iframe>


This is Tashi Gang, a Village close to the Monastery. it houses around 50 people
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d3389.4081271053687!2d78.67430271521093!3d31.841107638419718!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x3907aaa3ac472219%3A0x5c4b39e454beed3c!2sTashigang%20172112!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sde!4v1647009910307!5m2!1sen!2sde" width="300" height="300" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy"></iframe>

## The Project
In an environment reliant on hydro-energy and solar (diesel transport is unreliable), 6 months of winter, frequent snowstorms, and temperatures of up to -35°C, securing the grid is hard.
Our way to tackle the issue was to reject the here very established notion of electricity as a homogenous product with centralized production, and instead researched the possibilities of a predictive, self-correcting, and decentral grid. By prioritizing energy usage cases, instead of a full blackout during a storm, essential functions like radio towers and hospitals could be partially powered and maybe stay functioning. The binarity of either having electricity or not would be replaced by assigned quantities and timeslots, in a collective effort to be mindful and distribute the electricity necessity-based.
The ultimate vision was a live predictive electricity market, where people could even earn money by selling their allotted, but not needed electricity.
To gauge feasibility, I conducted several psychological acceptance studies and collected data on local electricity demands.
I simulated a typical day of electricity demand in the Key monastery