---
title                 :  "3D printing"
date                  :   2022-03-01 14:39:27 +0100
header:
  video:
    id                : Yj_Pc357kEU
    provider          : youtube
  credit              : "Aron Petau"

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-1.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-1-th.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: "Image 1 title caption"
  - url: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-2.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-2-th.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: "Image 2 title caption"
  - url: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-3.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-3-th.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 3"
    title: "Image 3 title caption"
  - url: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-4.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/unsplash-gallery-image-4-th.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 4"
    title: "Image 4 title caption"
categories:
  - university
tags:
  - example
---

# 3D Printing
## 3D Printing is more than just a hobby for me.

In it, I see societal changes, the democratization of production, and creative possibilities. Plastic does not have to be one of our greatest environmental problems if we just choose to change our perspective and behavior towards it. Plastic Injection molding was one major driving force for the capitalist setting we are in now. 3D Printing can be utilized to counteract production of scale.

3D Printing means local and custom production. While I do not buy the whole “every household is going to have a machine that prints what they need right now at the press of a button”, I do see vast potential in 3D printing.
That’s why I want to build my future on it. I want to design things and make them become reality. A 3D Printer lets me control that process from start to finish. Being able to design a thing in CAD is not enough here, I also need to be able to fully understand and control the machine that makes my thing. I started using a 3D Printer in early 2018, and by now I have 2 of them and they mostly do what I tell them to do.
I built both of them from kits and heavily modified them. I control them via octoprint, a software that, with its open and helpful community, makes me proud to use it and taught me a lot about open source principles. 3D Printing really is a positive example where a method informs my design and I love all the areas it introduced me to. Through it, I felt more at home using Linux, programming, soldering, incorporating electronics, and iteratively designing. I love the abilities a 3D Printer gives me and plan on using it for the recycling project.


{% include gallery caption="This is a sample gallery with **Markdown support**." %}

